---
layout: post
title: Code Swap
tags: Code
category: Process
---
I am a fan of code retreats. There is so much to get from them, from the different pairings to the different constraints on each session. Today we did a slight twist on the normal coderetreat format. I call it code swap.

#### The Format - Blind Rotation ####

Have a small group of developers (3-5). You need to have the same development lanugage and IDE (or ones that everyone is comfortable on all machines).
A common kata is picked for the exercise. Each developer starts at their machine and is given 20 minutes to solve the kata. At the end of twenty minutes someone calls time and everyone gets up from their machine and rotates to the next workstation. 

For the first 3 rotations everyone rotates blind - meaning when you come to a new workstation you cannot speak to the developer that was there before - you can only rely on the code. 

After 3 rotations we have a mini-retro where everyone gets together to share the experiences and what is frustrating them etc. 

#### 1 Minute Feedback Rotation ####

A slight variation on this is that when you hit a rotation point, you are allowed 1 minute to explain to the person coming in where you were going with the solution.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Learnings from the exercise ####

Some of the learnings I got from the exerise:  
- Initially there seems to be a fair amount of pressure to 'solve' the problem.  
- After the second rotation you start looking at how you can make things smaller so that people can see the direction you are going.  
- Expressing intent is hard, and the further you get into the problem the easier it is for people to pick things up.  
- Having tests passing helps get intent across, nothing worse than picking up someones solution and no tests are passing.  
- Making the intent clear becomes an important factor.  

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
