---
layout: post
title: "Kanban, D. Anderson"
description: "Successful Evolutionary Change for Your Technology Business"
category: Process
tags: [Read, Buy]
---

Warning: This book is not just about Kanban - it goes a lot deeper than that. This is possibly the best text I've read at a practices level to implementing agile methodologies in large/corporate organizations. I wish I had read this book years ago!

In the book ['Principles of Product Development Flow'](http://bookreviews.markpearl.co.za/Principles-of-Product-Development-Flow), Donald Reinertsen outlined at a principle level the economies of flow. I believe **'Kanban'** is the practicle implementation of Donald Reinertsen's book.

To give some background - I've been involved in large organizations adopting agile methodologies for several years. I could personally relate to nearly every piece of advice given in this book. There were things I had experienced and figured out already (and Kanban re-affirmed my opinions), or things I was experiencing with teams currently (and Kanban has given me sound advice on how to move forward). Normally I do an outline of highlights of a book. In this case it is hard because I found pretty much every page valuable.

#### Chapter 1 - Solving an Agile Manager's Dilemma ####

Read the entire chapter. It frames the current challenges that agile managers face.

#### Chapter 3 - Recipe for Success ####

Must read. I came up with something similar to this on my own, but got the order messed up. If I had done it David's way I believe I would have had a much better outcome.

1. Focus on Quality  
2. Reduce Work-in-Progress and Deliver Often  
3. Deliver Often  
4. Balance Demand against Throughput  
5. Prioritize  
6. Attack Sources of Bariability to Improve Predictability  

#### Chapter 19 - Sources of Variability ####

- p.g. 223 Predictability and risk management typically should trump an opportunity to increase throughput, as business owners and senior managers value predicatbility more than throughput.  

[Buy from Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Kanban-Successful-Evolutionary-Technology-Business/dp/0984521402)  
ISBN-13: 978-0984521401


